CellProfiler Installation Guide: Developer's version

1. (Mac only) Set X11 setting... Close MATLAB & X11. Open the Mac
application called 'Terminal' (Applications > Utilities > Terminal) and
type the following to ensure that display windows behave properly:
defaults write com.apple.x11 wm_click_through -bool true

2. Start MATLAB and check licenses... Start MATLAB and type into the main
window (command line): license('test','image_toolbox') If the Image
Processing Toolbox is installed with a valid license you will see: ans =
1, but if ans = 0, the toolbox and/or license is not installed.
CellProfiler was designed for MATLAB Release 14, version 7.1, SP3
although it is possible that many functions will work on other versions.
We have noticed lots of MATLAB crashing with Mac OS10.2 but OS10.3 is
fine.

3. Copy the CellProfiler files to your computer... Put them in a folder
named CellProfiler at any location - suggested: On Mac:
/Applications/CellProfiler On PC: C:\Program Files Once the files are
copied, do not move or rename this folder or any folders containing it,
or you will have to repeat the next step.

4. Start CellProfiler... To start CellProfiler for the first time, you
must call it directly. After the first time, you may simply type
"CellProfiler" in the main MATLAB window to start CellProfiler. To call
CellProfiler directly, type the following in the main MATLAB window
(LOCATION is where the CellProfiler folder is located): On Mac: run
'/LOCATION/CellProfiler/CellProfiler.m' For example: run
'/Applications/CellProfiler/CellProfiler.m'

On PC: run '\LOCATION\CellProfiler\CellProfiler.m' For example: run
'C:\Program Files\CellProfiler\CellProfiler.m'

5. (Optional steps) Get up and running quickly with one of the sample
pipelines on our Examples page, and check out Help > HelpGettingStarted
within CellProfiler. In CellProfiler, set some basic preferences in File
> Set preferences, which will make it easier to use CellProfiler.